
PERSONAL DATA WE COLLECT FROM YOU
The personal data we gather may not be limited. It depends on the services you sign up for.
We collect this data in order to maintain a relationship with you and keep you updated with our work. 
We collect your personal data when we;
Process your application for membership
Deal with your enquiries requests and complaints
Process your donations
Provide you with the services, products or data you have requested.
Process Gift Aid donations
Confirm receipt of donations (unless you have asked us not to do this)
Provide you with data about our work activities events and services
Comply with our legal obligations, policies and procedures
Provide and personalising our services
Administer membership records
Fundraising
Personal data collected by us depends upon the type of interaction we have with you.
The data we collect is relevant to the type of transaction you are entering into.

CATEGORIES OF DATA WE COLLECT
The types of personal data we collect from you include/are:
Identity data which includes your full name and title.
Contact data which includes your email address and phone number
Identification Documents which includes your driving licence
Technical data which includes online tracking data and service usage data
It is important that the personal data we hold about you is accurate and up to date

PERSONAL data WE COLLECT FROM OTHERS
Sometimes we work with carefully selected third parties who collect personal data on our behalf as well as for their own use.
Third parties that we currently receive data from but are not limited to the following:
Business Partners
Other Charities
Religious Institutions

SHARING YOUR PERSONAL DATA
We may share your personal data with third parties where we are required to do so by law.
Special Category data is not shared with the third parties.
The data is stored in a secure manner to which only our limited staff has access.

HOW WE USE YOUR PERSONAL DATA
Data Protection law permits us to process personal information only if we have a valid legal basis to do so. 
We must have one of the following reasons:
to enter into, or for the performance of a contract;
where we have a legal duty or obligation;
where it is in our legitimate interest; and
where you consent to it.
Where we are processing your Personal Information for our legitimate interests, you may object to the processing of your Personal Information.
We use your personal information for the following purposes:




























We do not collect Special Category data from our supporters unless there is a clear and specific reason for doing so such as a participation in a fundraising event where we need this to ensure that we provide appropriate facilities or support to enable you to participate in the event. 
In such cases, clear notices will be provided on application forms to make clear what data we need and why we need it.

TRANSFER OF YOUR PERSONAL DATA OUTSIDE THE UNITED KINGDOM
Your personal data may be transferred outside of the UK
We will only transfer your data when:
we’re required or permitted to by law or regulatory requirements
we’re sharing data with a third party to support us in the management of our purpose mentioned above
We require third parties to keep your personal data confidential and secure. We ensure that suitable protection is maintained at all times by ensuring appropriate safeguards are in place.

RETAINING YOUR PERSONAL DATA
We retain your personal information for as long as is necessary for the purposes described above.
We keep personal data for as long as it is required by us to meet our legal or regulatory obligations and for the exercise and/or defence of any legal claims.
Special Category data is deleted when no longer required by us.

PROFILING
We do not engage in any profiling activities with your personal data.

AUTOMATED DECISION MAKING 
We do not use any automated processes to make decisions about you.

YOUR DATA SUBJECT RIGHTS AND HOW TO EXERCISE THEM
You have rights relating to the personal data we hold about you, however, they may be subject to various exceptions and limitations. 
You can request to exercise your rights at any time by contacting us using the details in this privacy notice. 

Your rights:
Right to be informed: We are obliged to provide clear and transparent data about our processing activities of your personal data.
Request access to your personal data (commonly known as a “data subject access request”): You have the right to understand what personal data we hold about you and why.
Request correction of the personal data: If you believe that we hold inaccurate or incomplete personal data, you have the right to request us to rectify or correct your personal data.
Request erasure of your personal data: You may ask us to delete or remove personal data where there is no good reason for us to continue to process it. Please note, however, that we may not always be able to comply with your request for erasure for specific legal reasons.
Request restriction of processing of your personal data: You may ask us to stop processing your personal data. We will still hold the data but will not process it any further. You may exercise the right to restrict processing when one of the following conditions applies:
the accuracy of the personal data is contested
processing of the personal data is unlawful
we no longer need the personal data for processing but the personal data is required for part of a legal process
the right to object has been exercised and processing is restricted pending a decision on the status of the processing
Right to Data Portability: You may request your personal data be transferred to another controller or processor, provided in a commonly used and machine-readable format. This right is only available if the original processing was on the basis of consent, the processing is by automated means, and if the processing is based on the fulfilment of a contractual obligation.
Right to Withdraw Consent: You may withdraw consent at any time if we are relying on your consent to process your personal data. This won’t affect any processing already carried out before you withdraw your consent or processing under other grounds.
Right to object: You have the right to object to our processing of your personal data where:
processing is based on legitimate interest
processing is for the purpose of direct marketing

MAKING A DATA PROTECTION COMPLAINT
If you have any concerns about the use of your personal data or the way we handle your requests relating to your rights, you can raise a complaint directly with us by using the contact details provided in this notice.
If you are not satisfied with the way we handle your complaint, you are entitled to raise a complaint directly with the UK data Commissioner’s Office via the details available on their website: www.ico.org.uk  
For alternate EU Data Protection Authority contacts please see further information on the following link National Data Protection Authorities.

DATA PROTECTION OFFICER
Divine Life Transforming Centre
32 Felsted Road, E16 3HL, 
London
United Kingdom
or email us at: divine@dltcinternational.org
